In this video, we are going to
take a look
at connecting to the MySQL database
using the command line. I am going to
be focused on OS X in this video and
also Linux. These commands I'm going to
show you should work the same for Linux
as well as OS X are very similar.
But, there may be a couple nuances along
the way. And now, the first one man that
we want to use is simply mysql. You
can see that I'm getting command not
found. That's because the bash shell
and inside of OS X cannot find that
command. This is kind of the way I
installed MySQL. You may find it ok,
but by default, it does not create a link
to the MySQL executable. Linux
systems, I think the installer does do
this for you. So, it will add the MySQL
binaries into your past, so you should be
okay there. But if you run into this, what
you can do is create an alias and then
dupe in MySQL. This is going to create
an alias for that. So, if I hit enter, now
I can just use MySQL. You can see
that I'm getting a access denied here
for user JT at localhost, which makes
sense. I'm going to use a clear command to
clear this off there. Now, to actually
connect, what I want to do is mysql and
I'm going to do a - - user equals root. So,
that's the user. We don't have any other
user setup right now. We'll be getting
into that in the course further down the
road. Now, I also want to do a - p to
prompt for the password. So now, you can
see I have a little entry there for
password. Enter in the password for root,
and now you can see that I am at the
command-line.
Now, there's a number of things that we
can do. I do a help. We bring up the
MySQL help for the command-line client
here. We can see like status. And here, we
can see the connection details and the
version that I'm running. You can see
that I have a connection via a UNIX
socket,
so the client is going over a socket
connection at TCP/IP. But actually, a
socket into the server, and that again,
this again be UNIX or Linux or OS X. OS X
is a derivative of a UNIX operating
system, so it's going to be specific to
that. If you're watching this in using
Windows, you will be connecting either
via TCP/IP or a local pipe, I believe, or
named pipe. Now, let's take a look at the
database a little bit closer. We can do
the command show databases. It's very
important to use a semicolon here. That's
the terminator for the command. We
can see that I've got four databases in
there. We're just going to do a simple
query. We'll be getting into this in a
lot more detail. So, let's go ahead and
use mysql and semicolon. And now, by
default, I'm going to be using the MySQL
database. Now, I can do another command
called show tables. These are all the
tables there. Now, you might want to say I
could do show table name, but that would
be too intuitive for us. So, the command
is actually, if I want to describe a
table. And now we can see here, this is
all the columns in the user table. I had
to scroll up a little bit here. You can
see the field, the type, whether it's
allowed not to be null, if it's key default,
and some extra data. So, this gives you a
description of that table. Let's go
ahead and I'm going to issue a select
statement. We will select host user
from the table user semicolon, and just
to recap, what we're doing is I'm taking
these two fields here, the first two
fields: host and user. I'm saying select
those and we can see that there's three
users created in my system. I am logged
in as the root user. The other two, those
are internal system accounts used by
MySQL. You'll never and should never have
a need to log into those. We do have more
to talk about with users.
For now, we are going to be using the
root user for convenience going forward.
So, I just want to give you a quick
overview of the MySQL command client.
Now, when you are done using it to exit,
remember we got the help command, you can
do quit or exit. All right. I think exit.
Yeah exit or quit. So, you see both are
listed there. They do the same thing, so I
actually will use them interchangeably
personally. So, do that and now we can see
it says goodbye. If I do a clear, I'll
clear the screen and we are now out of
MySQL.